>> Kadi Kraman: So next,
for both iOS and Android,
there's actually quite
a few forms to fill out.
You only do these ones, but
it is really tedious and
there is a lot of information
that is very difficult to answer.
So when you're planning to do a release,
like take a good week,
especially if you have a client
that you build this for.
Take a good week because a lot of it
is regulatory and kind of important for
them to know what they
are agreeing to adhere by.
So just to show you what it looks like.
So the important part
here is the app privacy.
So you need to have a privacy policy
URL which needs to be hosted something,
hosted website,
you'll be hosted on the web.
And then here we have a data collection.
So if you do any analytics,
you will say yes, we do some data.
And then there's all this information you
need to declare what you are collecting.
So are you collecting the user's name?
Are you collecting their fitness data?
Are you collecting their
financial information?
And then if you've seen on the app stores,
you have this like a declaration
of what's being collected.
This is where this information comes from.
The developer has to fill it out.
And on Android, this is similar.
So the best place to find it,
I think is on the dashboard.
That was it, so it will be
finished setting up your app and
there is a list of tasks.
So these are completely different
questions to iOS just to make it fun.
Where you do need to set
up your privacy policy.
But then you have things like this,
whether you want a functionality in my app
is available without access restrictions.
And you have whether it's a news app,
I think data safety.
So this is similar to what
we just looked at on iOS.
Where you need to again declare, let's say
that the app is collecting things, say
Yes, and then you need to declare all the
information that your app is collecting.
So this is quite a long form to jump
through so it will take some time.
And you do change it periodically.
So it's very difficult to
write any instructions for
it because the options won't be the same.
So next up you need to generate
some promotional assets.
So actually put together this document.
So you have this document for
app store assets.
So these are the things that you
need to generate in order to submit.
And the most important part, I think,
is the screenshots of your app.
They're called screenshots, but they don't
technically have to be screenshots on
that device, which is a little bit funny.
So you can take a bit of
creative liberty to it.
If you do a screenshot on a particular
device, then that's perfect,
that is absolutely going to get through,
but you can be a bit more creative.
So Option 1,
you can use actual screenshots.
So for example, this is what this does.
Or you can be a little bit more creative
when you do screenshots within a design.
So this sometimes, so when I worked
on projects where we have designers,
they will design the app screenshots.
So they're not actual screenshots that
they've taken on their phone, they use
their design and they put the iPhone bezel
around it and then add some messaging.
So this is completely fine if it's
reflective of what your app is actually
gonna look like,
then this will possibly be device.
And Option 3 is you can
make it quite fancy.
There is limits to how fancy you can make
it, but if this is still indicative to
what your app actually looks like,
you can get away with it.
So this was an example that I saw,
which is like they've really gone to town
with some creative design liberties.
So we have a Figma template again for
like the minimum asset requirements.
So this has like for
Android and for the iPhone, so
it has some placeholders of
what you would need to create.
And I've also listed them here.
So the bare minimum.
So this is the bare minimum you need to
create in order to submit your app for
approval.
For Android, you need an app icon,
you need a feature graphic, and
you need between four and ten screenshots.
And there's the sizing requirement
is really strict as well.
So, if you're like a pixel over for
the feature graphic, it won't work.
For the screenshots,
it is the aspect ratio that is important.
And then for the iPhone,
you need screenshots for
iPhone without a notch.
You need screenshots for iPhone with
the notch, so between 2 and 10 of each.
And with the notch,
you can choose between these dimensions.
You can do one of them.
So you can do two screenshots
of one of these dimensions.
And if your app also runs an iPad and
then by default, the CreateExpoApps2,
you also need to supply additional
screenshots for the iPad.
I actually think that might
be mandatory these days.
Because I remember for
the ReactConf, I created the app store
assets for iOS and for all the iPhones.
So iPhone with a notch,
iPhone without a notch.
And I was like, great, submit it.
And then it errors because I
didn't have iPad screenshots.
So I think you do need them these days.
So next step is testing.
So both stores include a testing option
but the way the testing works is pretty
different between both of them and
very different from the web.
So this is meant for
user acceptance testing.
So you are testing on the bundle that
will be submitted to the actual users.
So it's not like a test
version of your app and
then you're submitting
a different version.
It is, that is not what it is.
You are submitting to
your actual app bundle.
So let's see if our test.
If our iOS app has finished uploading.
I forgot to trigger it,
that's embarrassing.
So when you upload an iOS app
to either from transporter or
from EIS into App Store Connect,
it actually ends up here in test flight.
So let me show you a different app.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So
the apps will show up here
in the test Flight tab.
And then by default they
will be in internal testing.
So internal testers are only people that
have to have access to your developer
accounts you need they need to be
users on your developer account and
they will just immediately have access.
They will be added by email and
they'll get an email saying
that a new version is ready.
If you want to show it
to external testers,
you need to choose a build from here.
So I don't have a build that was valid,
but if I did,
then I could choose a build from here.
And it actually has to submit it to
a mini review before it's available.
But then once I have submitted it,
you can share it via a link so
you can have public URL.
Or you can add people via their email, so
they'll get an email saying that
a new app version is ready.
>> Kadi Kraman: For
Android on Google we have Testing Tracks.
So we have internal testing,
we have closed testing, and open testing.
So internal testing is where you
can invite people via with email.
So it has to be the email that
the user sign into Google Play,
like on their phones.
I think it was up to 100 people.
And then close testing goes through
like a mini review step, but
you can have an email or stuff.
I don't know if there is a limit, but
you can have a much larger email list.
And finally, open testing is your
app will be open on the play store,
it will be available for download but
it will be tagged as in beta.
And then finally in production when you're
ready, you will submit to production.
This is again a note if you're using
a personal account on Android on Google.
You need a minimum of 20 testers who
have opted in to test your app for
at least 14 days before you can
even apply to production access.
So this was introduced late last year,
I think, and it only affects
individual like personal accounts.
So if you have a business account,
you don't have this restriction.
So there's some jokes out there about
trying to find your 20 friends with
Android devices to test your app.
And finally you need to
submit your app for review.
So, this is again crazy for
use to web developer.
By the way,
you can just deploy your website.
This is not the case for mobile apps,
they need to be reviewed.
So, the review is both manual and
automated.
There are automated checks for
your app bundle, so
it automatically It detects APIs that
use native APIs, but it is also manual.
So it tends to be more
strict on iOS than Android.
So if your app, for example,
requires login to access,
you need to provide login details for
the reviewer that they
can use to log in and
test the logged in features your app.
And your app may be rejected for
tons of different reasons on iOS,
especially iOS reviews sent
to be more strict in Android.
So for example, the first time
Ii submitted the ReactConf, so
I had a feature there that
you use a quick action.
Similar what we did,
to open a secret modal, and
then you can change your app icon on iOS.
And the reviewer could see from
the native bundle that I had
code to change the app icon.
So it's a native API that was included,
but
they couldn't find this
functionality in the app.
So actually the app was rejected because
they said the app bundle includes code to
change your app icon, but
you can't do it in the app.
So then I had to reply saying,
you actually use quick action, so
press and hold.
And after a couple of hours,
it went through.
So there's tons of things that
can make your app not go through.
It seems a little bit random.
Sometimes you can reply to a reviewer
if it's a misunderstanding like that.
And sometimes it is something that you
need to actually change in the code,
rebuild, and resubmit.
So especially the first time you're
submitting to the App Store,
give yourself a couple of days or
a week ideally.
Especially since each of these
iterations can take let's say half
a day if you're lucky, but it can take
a couple of days if the queues are big.